personal Brands can help you build
amazing companies but they'll only get
you so far the ideal in Ideal World you
would have what Kylie Cosmetics is doing
combined with what L'Oreal is doing
that's how I believe you build one of
the biggest companies but you're not
going to get a massive company without
the business operations and systems and
processes down I believe that's actually
more important than the personal
brand a lot of brands and personal
brands are up against the
algorithm it's tougher to get views it's
tougher to get engagement what are your
thoughts or what would you say to people
that are fighting with the algorithm and
what are things that they could do or if
they can't do something uh what would
you say to them to keep fighting the
good
fight algorithms are always going to be
tough they make money when you spend
money on ads it doesn't mean that
they're going to crush organic uh it's
just harder to get organic than it used
to be CU they make more money on ads and
you can't blame them because they're
publicly traded and if I owned them I
would do the same exact thing I actually
probably would be a little bit more
aggressive than them and make more money
on the paid ads so I can't really
hate but instead of complaining or
worrying about an algorithm use it for
what you can get out of it a lot of
people will look at algorithms like
Facebook or Instagram and they're like I
used to make $100,000 a year from it I
only make $20,000 a year from it now
$20,000 is still better than zero
use these platforms for what they are
and get the most out of them and keep
trying new things to make up the
difference one thing though and Dan's an
expert in this he knows so many people
you'll be shocked at how many people I
still meet that like oh yeah do you know
a guy named Dan flesh and I'm like yeah
I know him I'm like great
guy and uh I was even telling him the
other day I was like dude I was on a
plane flying back from New York and
Steve yokei was sitting next to me he's
like oh you should have said hi I'm like
no I don't want to buy him he was
sleeping and he's like he he's one of my
best friends he was uh I think the best
man at your wedding right and I was like
no I'm good but like Dan really knows a
lot of people and the point I'm getting
across is
Dan does so much with influencer
marketing I don't know if you still do
but he used to do a ton back in the day
and he still does a ton right now one of
the best ways to generate a lot of
Revenue and stand out and this helps
with the algorithms is to have an
influencer and the key with the
influencer this is what most people get
wrong they'll like go to Kylie Jenner it
doesn't have to be that big it could be
a micro influencer someone who's known
within your Niche and they pay him to do
a post that honestly doesn't work too
well they all get paid to do Post what
works really well is paying an
influencer who's well known in your
space they promote your product they're
part of your business they're also on
your landing pages your ad creatives and
they're endorsing the product as as if
it's their own that converts extremely
well and that helps with the algorithms
from what we see great example of this
is Ryan Reynolds and Mitt mobile Ryan
Reynolds was not the founder of
mintmobile he got Equity to help blow up
mintmobile raise your hand if you know
the CEO of Delta
Airlines American
Airlines Southwest Airlines no but if I
say do you know the CEO of Virgin
Airlines everybody knows Richard
That's The Power of a personal
brand the huge difference is outside of
Airlines Delta America Southwest Etc
they don't have record labels they don't
have clothing lines they don't have
vodkas they don't have all these other
things virgin does because of Richard
Branson because of a personal brand and
so that's why we talk about branding so
much and why it's so useful is they can
help expand your business to become much
bigger than what it is simply by people
knowing you and knowing about the brand
in the business
you have built these very large
companies over the years but you still
spent a ton of time creating content
every day I see you every morning on
LinkedIn then I go to Facebook there you
are then I'm on Instagram and then you
pop up I can't escape you everywhere I
go literally can't escape I see you more
every single day than anyways like why
do you spend so much time creating the
personal brand and why is it so useful
when you already have such large
companies sure so I used to spend much
more time creating a personal brand than
I do now our income at my Ad Agency
we're small still compared to the other
ad agencies out there we have maybe like
750 employees somewhere around there but
we're we're small compared to the
competitors who have like 100,000
employees right it's all you know in
perspective but for me we're still a
really tiny company um and we're 5 years
old and most of our business at this
point uh it's roughly 71%
the last we looked at year to date and
when I say year to date we don't have
data for June and we don't have data for
May so but we have Mo most the months so
far this
year when I look at year-to date 71% of
our business comes from
rfps employee referrals and client
referrals I used to focus most of my
time on building a personal brand which
has helped my business get off the
ground first probably 10 plus million
dollars came from my personal brand if
not a little bit more but it was hard to
scale more and more than that through a
personal brand keep in mind I'm dealing
with Enterprises so if you're pitching
Microsoft they don't honestly care who
Neil Patel is they care saying I'm
spending $100 million a year this is my
current Roi show me data and stats that
you can beat this it really comes down
to that when you're dealing with large
publicly traded companies and large
dollar amounts when you're dealing with
startups and smaller Brands that's not
the case I think a personal brand is
great to really separate you from the
crowd and I think it's also great to
help you generate quite a bit of Revenue
great example of this is Kylie Cosmetics
but what a lot of people forget is
marketing isn't everything and even
though Kylie Jenner created an amazing
company and no one can knock her for it
I remember Forbes releasing articles
saying she's a billionaire and then
people knocking her saying she's not a
billionaire anymore I'm like who gives a
if she's a billion or not look what
she did at her age you got to give her
props for that right like I don't
understand why people were hating but to
give you idea of a personal brand versus
a non-personal brand look at L'oreal
L'oreal I believe is a Cosmetics company
I say I believe this because I don't
know too much about Cosmetics other than
I went to Sephora today my four-year-old
said what do you want walking down Rodeo
Drive she's like makeup and it took me
forever to find a makeup store and I ran
into Sephora I'm like here you go and
one of the ladies was helping us out um
and then I got in trouble from the mommy
for buying her makeup she's like
four-year-olds don't need makeup I'm
like my
bad but when you look at L'Oreal versus
Kylie Cosmetics Kylie Cosmetics built an
amazing business no one should knock her
for that everyone should be giving props
but you know how massive L'Oreal is
that's an example of amazing operations
and
distributions personal Brands can help
you build amazing companies but they'll
only get you so so far the ideal in the
ideal world you would have what Kylie
Cosmetics is doing combined with what
L'Oreal is doing that's how I believe
you build one of the biggest companies
but you're not going to get a massive
company without the business operations
and systems and processes down I believe
that's actually more important than the
personal
brand so right now when people make
social media posts on most platforms
they can do either video photo or text
should they be focusing on any one of
those categories or should they be
mixing it up between the three different
options you should mainly focus on
videos because that's what all the
platforms want second you can do photos
but the main reason I say videos is is
you can take the videos and get stills
from there for a photo or when you're
doing the video just have someone snap
some photos so you can get the photos as
well and then you can translate and
transcribe or in essence repurpose the
video into different formats so you can
have an audio version for it just strip
out the video and you got a podcast
you can take sound clips from it and you
got reals and shorts right so you can
take the text from or you can take the
audio from the video and transcribe it
into text and modify it a little bit
that's why I say transcribe and you got
a blog post now that's why I love doing
videos first over any other content
format it's just the most efficient when
it comes to
repurposing so all of us have a
question is AI and chat gbt and all the
robots are they going to kill us are
they what are they going to kill us is
AI going to take
over I don't know if they're going to
kill us um I'm not that smart like Elon
Musk or anyone who would know better
than me but I'll tell you this in
marketing I think a lot of people got it
wrong in the short run I most people are
overestimating Ai and what it can do in
the long run believe it or not most of
us are underestimating what AI can do
for us there's been decades where very
little has progressed when it comes to
techn techology and Ai and now weeks go
by and it feels like Decades of progress
has happened in just those small
weeks but here's the thing have you guys
ever heard of where's Waldo yeah you
know that guy with the red and white
striped shirts funny enough someone made
a we's Waldo of my face on it and when I
was gone and I was traveling I used to
live in Seattle back then someone put it
over my toilet worst location ever when
people would come over they would piss
all over the bathroom trying to find
where I was I was remove that one really
quickly but just imagine where's Waldo
for a
minute back then when you find where's
wble there's only one where's
Waldo and eventually you find him he
stands
out but now with AI everyone looks like
Waldo literally you'll have a thousand
people in the audience they all look
like Waldo and here's why the way AI
works is it's taking inputs the inputs
is the web it's scraping the web
indexing it and then coming with the
output based on what it what the inputs
are the inputs already existed right so
people are using the same inputs to
create very similar outputs it's causing
everyone to look alike so now marketing
is turning into me too type of stuff and
I don't mean me too you know like the
women's movement I mean me too in which
everyone looks
alike and what we're seeing is the
people who are really excelling at
marketing are the people who add in
their own Google calls it e expertise
Authority trust and they added another e
to it so experience as well the people
who add in that unique touch that no one
else can
replicate those are the ones who are
doing well for example there's a lot of
articles on the internet that talk about
influencer
marketing Dan's worked with the
Kardashians how many times you probably
can't count on both your
hands he's worked with them so many
times and other crazy influencers I've
been at his events and I've seen people
like Mark wallberg and you know a
Kardashian and the list goes on and on
and Magic Johnson and
Etc he can actually write an article
talking about what it's like to work
with these influencers because he's
experienced something that others
haven't that makes content unique and
what people forget about is these
algorithm are amazingly good at drowning
out the noise how many here follow more
than 100 people on their social profiles
raise your hand almost everyone should
be raising your hand the rest of you
guys are lazy but I understand it's 7:
p.m. so I appreciate you guys
anyways how many of you guys see all the
content from the people you follow raise
your hand look around the room not one
person has raise your hand seriously
look around the room not one person
algorithms are great at drowning out the
noise when you do a Google search for
anything guarantee you in almost every
search there's millions of results if
you do a search for auto insurance in
the United States did you know there's
over 1 billion results did you know
there's roughly 300,000 people who
search that term every single month in
the United States did you know majority
of the people click on the first page
some people click on the second page
very few people click on the third page
my team used to make a joke you know
where the best place to hide a dead body
is I was like where they're like page
two of Google hahaa I was like this
isn't that funny they loved
it and just think about
that most the sites that rank for any
term on Google have similar content
Google's good at drowning out the noise
and they always show you the stuff on
page one page two and Page Three that
means they're showing you roughly 30
articles Max which is what everyone's
seeing out of over a billion results
think about that so what AI is doing is
just creating more of majority of those
billion plus articles and content pieces
that most people are going to ignore you
got to figure out how to stand out and
you're going to do that through unique
content that people haven't seen before
while AI is going to create you in most
cases not all cases most cases
regurgitated content or something that
isn't that unique ladies and gentlemen
give a warm Round of Applause to my
friend Mr Neil
[Music]